## Final assignment for Python course at CIMeC.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Brief description of my project:
My PhD project aims at investigating, with a mixed-methods approach, the psychological side effects 
of Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) in Parkinson's Disease (PD) patients.
This includes administering a questionnaire that assesses quality of life in patient with PD, the Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire (PDQ-39),
before and after DBS implantation.

## THE PARKINSON'S DISEASE QUESTIONNAIRE (PDQ-39) STRUCTURE:

The PDQ-39 consists of 39 questions that assess various aspects of daily life impacted by Parkinson's disease. 

The questions are grouped into 8 different domains: Mobility (MOB; items 1-10), Activities of Daily Living (ADL; items 11-16) , Emotional Well-being (EMO; items 17-22), Stigma (STI; items 23-26), Social Support (SOC; items 27-29), Cognition (COG; items 30-33), Communication (COM; items 34-36), and Bodily Discomfort (BOD; items 37-39). 
Patients answer each question based on their experiences over the past month.

SCORING PROCESS OF PDQ-39: 

The eight PDQ‐39 scale scores are generated by Likert's method of summated ratings (ie, item responses are summed without weighting or standardisation).
Scores are then transformed to a common range of 0–100 (100 =  maximum level of problems).
Item scores can range between 0 and 4 (0 = never; 1 = seldom; 2 = sometimes; 3 = often; 4 = always).

> Domain scores:
To obtain the domain-specific score we need to perform the following calculations:
1 - Sum up the raw scores from each domain (scale)
2 - Divide this number by the maximum score for each question (4)
3 - Divide the result by the total number of questions for each domain 
4 - Multiply the last result for 100

> Summary index score:
To obtain the summary index score, average the domain scores. Sum up the domain scores and divide the total by the number of domains (8 in the case of the PDQ-39). 
The summary index score represents the overall impact of Parkinson's disease on the person's quality of life.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Script for automatically perform the scoring of The Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire (PDQ-39)
## Table of Contents

The code has two sections: the first for PDQ-39 scores obtained before DBS, the second for PDQ-39 scores obtained after DBS.
|| N.B. Since I don't have sufficient data to perform statistics on it, my code is now limited only in displaying and plotting patients' scores.

The two sections share the same structure and operations as described below:

1) The .csv file that store raw data of PDQ-39 is logged and converted into a dataframe using pandas library.
2) An empty dictionary is then created to associate domain-specific scale (keys) to the corresponding items in the questionnaire (values).
3) A new dataframe is then created to match patients' answers with the respective scales.
4) A function calculate_domain_score performs calculation of specific scores for each domain and then applied to our data.
5) A new column "Total_score" is then added where the summary index score is calculated for each patient (row)
   by summing up each domain score and then divide the result by 8 (total number of scales in PDQ-39).

PLOTTING:
